=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init, OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init_ex,
OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer_ex, OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer, OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive
- derive public key algorithm shared secret

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 int OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx);
 int OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init_ex(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx, const OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 int OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer_ex(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx, EVP_PKEY *peer,
                                 int validate_peer);
 int OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx, EVP_PKEY *peer);
 int OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx, unsigned char *key, size_t *keylen);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init() initializes a public key algorithm context I<ctx> for
shared secret derivation using the algorithm given when the context was created
using L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(3)> or variants thereof.  The algorithm is used to
fetch a B<EVP_KEYEXCH> method implicitly, see L<provider(7)/Implicit fetch> for
more information about implicit fetches.

OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init_ex() is the same as OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init() but additionally
sets the passed parameters I<params> on the context before returning.

OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer_ex() sets the peer key: this will normally
be a public key. The I<validate_peer> will validate the public key if this value
is non zero.

OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer() is similar to OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer_ex() with
I<validate_peer> set to 1.

OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive() derives a shared secret using I<ctx>.
If I<key> is NULL then the maximum size of the output buffer is written to the
I<keylen> parameter. If I<key> is not NULL then before the call the I<keylen>
parameter should contain the length of the I<key> buffer, if the call is
successful the shared secret is written to I<key> and the amount of data
written to I<keylen>.

=head1 NOTES

After the call to OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init(), algorithm
specific control operations can be performed to set any appropriate parameters
for the operation.

The function OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive() can be called more than once on the same
context if several operations are performed using the same parameters.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init() and OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive() return 1
for success and 0 or a negative value for failure.
In particular a return value of -2 indicates the operation is not supported by
the public key algorithm.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Derive shared secret (for example DH or EC keys):

 #include <openssl/evp.h>
 #include <openssl/rsa.h>

 EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx;
 ENGINE *eng;
 unsigned char *skey;
 size_t skeylen;
 EVP_PKEY *pkey, *peerkey;
 /* NB: assumes pkey, eng, peerkey have been already set up */

 ctx = OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(pkey, eng);
 if (!ctx)
     /* Error occurred */
 if (OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init(ctx) <= 0)
     /* Error */
 if (OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer(ctx, peerkey) <= 0)
     /* Error */

 /* Determine buffer length */
 if (OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive(ctx, NULL, &skeylen) <= 0)
     /* Error */

 skey = OPENSSL_malloc(skeylen);

 if (!skey)
     /* malloc failure */

 if (OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive(ctx, skey, &skeylen) <= 0)
     /* Error */

 /* Shared secret is skey bytes written to buffer skey */

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(3)>,
L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_encrypt(3)>,
L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_decrypt(3)>,
L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_sign(3)>,
L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_verify(3)>,
L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_verify_recover(3)>,
L<OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_KEYEXCH_fetch(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init(), OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer() and OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive()
functions were originally added in OpenSSL 1.0.0.

The OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_init_ex() and OPENSSL_BOX_EVP_PKEY_derive_set_peer_ex() functions were
added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2006-2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
